doc/source/index.rst, before:

Jupyter Sphinx Extension
========================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:

Jupyter-sphinx is a Sphinx extension that executes embedded code in a Jupyter
kernel, and embeds outputs of that code in the document. It has support
for rich output such as images, Latex math and even javascript widgets, and
it allows to enable `thebelab <https://thebelab.readthedocs.io/>`_ for live
code execution with minimal effort.

Installation
------------
Get jupyter-sphinx from pip:

.. code-block:: bash

  pip install jupyter-sphinx

or conda:

.. code-block:: bash

  conda install jupyter_sphinx

Enabling the extension
----------------------
To enable the extension, add ``jupyter_sphinx.execute`` to your enabled extensions in
``conf.py``.

Basic Usage
-----------

You can use the ``jupyter-execute`` directive to embed code into the document::

  .. jupyter-execute::

    name = 'world'
    print('hello ' + name + '!')

The above is rendered as follows:

.. jupyter-execute::

  name = 'world'
  print('hello ' + name + '!')

Note that the code produces *output* (printing the string 'hello world!'), and the output
is rendered directly after the code snippet.

Because all code cells in a document are run in the same kernel, cells later in the document
can use variables and functions defined in cells earlier in the document:

.. jupyter-execute::

    a = 1
    print('first cell: a = {}'.format(a))

.. jupyter-execute::

    a += 1
    print('second cell: a = {}'.format(a))

Because jupyter-sphinx uses the machinery of ``nbconvert``, it is capable of rendering
any rich output, for example plots:

.. jupyter-execute::

    import numpy as np
    from matplotlib import pyplot
    %matplotlib inline

    x = np.linspace(1E-3, 2 * np.pi)

    pyplot.plot(x, np.sin(x) / x)
    pyplot.plot(x, np.cos(x))
    pyplot.grid()

LaTeX output:

.. jupyter-execute::

  from IPython.display import Latex
  Latex('∫_{-∞}^∞ e^{-x²}dx = \sqrt{π}')

or even full-blown javascript widgets:

.. jupyter-execute::

    import ipywidgets as w
    from IPython.display import display

    a = w.IntSlider()
    b = w.IntText()
    w.jslink((a, 'value'), (b, 'value'))
    display(a, b)

It is also possible to include code from a regular file by passing the filename as argument
to ``jupyter-execute``::

  .. jupyter-execute:: some_code.py

``jupyter-execute`` may also be used in docstrings within your Python code, and will be executed
when they are included with Sphinx autodoc.


Thebelab support
----------------

To turn on `thebelab <https://thebelab.readthedocs.io/>`_, specify its configuration directly
in ``conf.py``:

.. code-block:: python

  jupyter_sphinx_thebelab_config = {
      'requestKernel': True,
      'binderOptions': {
          'repo': "binder-examples/requirements",
      },
  }

With this configuration, thebelab is activated with a button click:

.. thebe-button:: Activate Thebelab

By default the button is added at the end of the document, but it may also be inserted anywhere using

.. code-block:: ReST

  .. thebe-button:: Optional title

Directive options
-----------------
You may choose to hide the code of a cell, but keep its output visible using ``:hide-code:``::

  .. jupyter-execute::
      :hide-code:

      print('this code is invisible')

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
    :hide-code:

    print('this code is invisible')

or vice versa with ``:hide-output:``::

    .. jupyter-execute::
        :hide-output:

        print('this output is invisible')

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
    :hide-output:

    print('this output is invisible')

You may also display the code *below* the output with ``:code-below:``::

  .. jupyter-execute::
      :code-below:

      print('this output is above the code')

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
    :code-below:

    print('this code is below the output')

You may also add *line numbers* to the source code with ``:linenos:``::

    .. jupyter-execute::
        :linenos:

        print('A')
        print('B')
        print('C')

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
    :linenos:

    print('A')
    print('B')
    print('C')

You may also *continue line numbers* from the previous cell with ``:continue-linenos:``::

  .. jupyter-execute::
      :linenos:

      print('A')

  .. jupyter-execute::
      :continue-linenos:

      print('B')
      print('C')

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
    :linenos:

    print('A')

.. jupyter-execute::
    :continue-linenos:

    print('B')
    print('C')

Controlling exceptions
----------------------

The default behaviour when jupyter-sphinx encounters an error in the embedded code is just to
stop execution of the document and display a stack trace. However, there are many cases where it may be
illustrative for execution to continue and for a stack trace to be shown as *output of the cell*. This
behaviour can be enabled by using the ``raises`` option::

  .. jupyter-execute::
      :raises:

      1 / 0

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
    :raises:

    1 / 0

Note that when given no arguments, ``raises`` will catch all errors. It is also possible to give ``raises``
a list of error types; if an error is raised that is not in the list then execution stops as usual::

  .. jupyter-execute::
      :raises: KeyError, ValueError

      a = {'hello': 'world!'}
      a['jello']

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
  :raises: KeyError, ValueError

  a = {'hello': 'world!'}
  a['jello']

Additionally, any output sent to the ``stderr`` stream of a cell will result in jupyter-sphinx
raising an exception. This behaviour can be suppressed (and the ``stderr`` stream printed as regular
output) by providing the ``stderr`` option::

  .. jupyter-execute::
      :stderr:

      import sys

      print("hello, world!", file=sys.stderr)

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
    :stderr:

    import sys

    print("hello, world!", file=sys.stderr)

.. warning::

    Note that output written to ``stderr`` is not displayed any differently than output written
    to ``stdout``.

Controlling the execution environment
-------------------------------------
The execution environment can be controlled by using the ``jupyter-kernel`` directive. This directive takes
the name of the Jupyter kernel in which all future cells (until the next ``jupyter-kernel`` directive) should
be run::

  .. jupyter-kernel:: python3
      :id: a_unique_name

``jupyter-kernel`` can also take a directive option ``:id:`` that names the Jupyter session;
it is used in conjunction with the ``jupyter-download`` roles described in the next section.

Note that putting a ``jupyter-kernel`` directive starts a *new* kernel, so any variables and functions declared
in cells *before* a ``jupyter-kernel`` directive will not be available in future cells.

Note that we are also not limited to working with Python: Jupyter Sphinx supports kernels for
any programming language, and we even get proper syntax highlighting thanks to the power of
Pygments.

Downloading the code as a script
--------------------------------
Jupyter Sphinx includes 2 roles that can be used to download the code embedded in a document:
``:jupyter-download:script:`` (for a raw script file) and ``:jupyter-download:notebook:`` (for
a Jupyter notebook). For example, to download all the code from this document as a script we
would use::

    :jupyter-download:script:`index`

Which produces a link like this: :jupyter-download:script:`index`. The name that the role is
applied to (``index`` in this case) is the name of the document for which you wish to download
the code. If a document contains ``jupyter-kernel`` directives with ``:id:`` specified, then
the name provided to ``:id:`` can be used to get the code for the cells belonging to the
that Jupyter session.


Configuration options
---------------------

Typically you will be using Sphinx to build documentation for a software package.

If you are building documentation for a Python package you should add the following
lines to your sphinx ``conf.py``::

    import os

    package_path = os.path.abspath('../..')
    os.environ['PYTHONPATH'] = ':'.join((package_path, os.environ.get('PYTHONPATH', '')))

This will ensure that your package is importable by any IPython kernels, as they will
inherit the environment variables from the main Sphinx process.

Here is a list of all the configuration options available to the Jupyter Sphinx extension:

jupyter_execute_default_kernel

    The default kernel to launch when executing code in ``jupyter-execute`` directives.
    The default is ``python3``.


jupyter_execute_data_priority

    The display priority of different output mimetypes. Mimetypes earlier in the data priority
    list are preferred over later ones. This is relevant if a code cell produces an output
    that has several possible representations (e.g. description text or an image).
    The default is
    ``['application/vnd.jupyter.widget-view+json', 'text/html', 'image/svg+xml', 'image/png', 'image/jpeg', 'text/latex', 'text/plain']``.


jupyter_execute_kwargs

    Keyword arguments to pass to ``nbconvert.preprocessors.execute.executenb``, which controls how
    code cells are executed. The default is ``dict(timeout=-1, allow_errors=True)``.

Commit message:

Added jupyter_sphinx_linenos and jupyter_sphinx_continue_linenos configuration options

doc/source/index.rst, after:

Jupyter Sphinx Extension
========================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:

Jupyter-sphinx is a Sphinx extension that executes embedded code in a Jupyter
kernel, and embeds outputs of that code in the document. It has support
for rich output such as images, Latex math and even javascript widgets, and
it allows to enable `thebelab <https://thebelab.readthedocs.io/>`_ for live
code execution with minimal effort.

Installation
------------
Get jupyter-sphinx from pip:

.. code-block:: bash

  pip install jupyter-sphinx

or conda:

.. code-block:: bash

  conda install jupyter_sphinx

Enabling the extension
----------------------
To enable the extension, add ``jupyter_sphinx.execute`` to your enabled extensions in
``conf.py``.

Basic Usage
-----------

You can use the ``jupyter-execute`` directive to embed code into the document::

  .. jupyter-execute::

    name = 'world'
    print('hello ' + name + '!')

The above is rendered as follows:

.. jupyter-execute::

  name = 'world'
  print('hello ' + name + '!')

Note that the code produces *output* (printing the string 'hello world!'), and the output
is rendered directly after the code snippet.

Because all code cells in a document are run in the same kernel, cells later in the document
can use variables and functions defined in cells earlier in the document:

.. jupyter-execute::

    a = 1
    print('first cell: a = {}'.format(a))

.. jupyter-execute::

    a += 1
    print('second cell: a = {}'.format(a))

Because jupyter-sphinx uses the machinery of ``nbconvert``, it is capable of rendering
any rich output, for example plots:

.. jupyter-execute::

    import numpy as np
    from matplotlib import pyplot
    %matplotlib inline

    x = np.linspace(1E-3, 2 * np.pi)

    pyplot.plot(x, np.sin(x) / x)
    pyplot.plot(x, np.cos(x))
    pyplot.grid()

LaTeX output:

.. jupyter-execute::

  from IPython.display import Latex
  Latex('∫_{-∞}^∞ e^{-x²}dx = \sqrt{π}')

or even full-blown javascript widgets:

.. jupyter-execute::

    import ipywidgets as w
    from IPython.display import display

    a = w.IntSlider()
    b = w.IntText()
    w.jslink((a, 'value'), (b, 'value'))
    display(a, b)

It is also possible to include code from a regular file by passing the filename as argument
to ``jupyter-execute``::

  .. jupyter-execute:: some_code.py

``jupyter-execute`` may also be used in docstrings within your Python code, and will be executed
when they are included with Sphinx autodoc.


Thebelab support
----------------

To turn on `thebelab <https://thebelab.readthedocs.io/>`_, specify its configuration directly
in ``conf.py``:

.. code-block:: python

  jupyter_sphinx_thebelab_config = {
      'requestKernel': True,
      'binderOptions': {
          'repo': "binder-examples/requirements",
      },
  }

With this configuration, thebelab is activated with a button click:

.. thebe-button:: Activate Thebelab

By default the button is added at the end of the document, but it may also be inserted anywhere using

.. code-block:: ReST

  .. thebe-button:: Optional title

Directive options
-----------------
You may choose to hide the code of a cell, but keep its output visible using ``:hide-code:``::

  .. jupyter-execute::
      :hide-code:

      print('this code is invisible')

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
    :hide-code:

    print('this code is invisible')

or vice versa with ``:hide-output:``::

    .. jupyter-execute::
        :hide-output:

        print('this output is invisible')

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
    :hide-output:

    print('this output is invisible')

You may also display the code *below* the output with ``:code-below:``::

  .. jupyter-execute::
      :code-below:

      print('this output is above the code')

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
    :code-below:

    print('this code is below the output')

You may also add *line numbers* to the source code with ``:linenos:``::

    .. jupyter-execute::
        :linenos:

        print('A')
        print('B')
        print('C')

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
    :linenos:

    print('A')
    print('B')
    print('C')

Controlling exceptions
----------------------

The default behaviour when jupyter-sphinx encounters an error in the embedded code is just to
stop execution of the document and display a stack trace. However, there are many cases where it may be
illustrative for execution to continue and for a stack trace to be shown as *output of the cell*. This
behaviour can be enabled by using the ``raises`` option::

  .. jupyter-execute::
      :raises:

      1 / 0

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
    :raises:

    1 / 0

Note that when given no arguments, ``raises`` will catch all errors. It is also possible to give ``raises``
a list of error types; if an error is raised that is not in the list then execution stops as usual::

  .. jupyter-execute::
      :raises: KeyError, ValueError

      a = {'hello': 'world!'}
      a['jello']

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
  :raises: KeyError, ValueError

  a = {'hello': 'world!'}
  a['jello']

Additionally, any output sent to the ``stderr`` stream of a cell will result in jupyter-sphinx
raising an exception. This behaviour can be suppressed (and the ``stderr`` stream printed as regular
output) by providing the ``stderr`` option::

  .. jupyter-execute::
      :stderr:

      import sys

      print("hello, world!", file=sys.stderr)

produces:

.. jupyter-execute::
    :stderr:

    import sys

    print("hello, world!", file=sys.stderr)

.. warning::

    Note that output written to ``stderr`` is not displayed any differently than output written
    to ``stdout``.

Controlling the execution environment
-------------------------------------
The execution environment can be controlled by using the ``jupyter-kernel`` directive. This directive takes
the name of the Jupyter kernel in which all future cells (until the next ``jupyter-kernel`` directive) should
be run::

  .. jupyter-kernel:: python3
      :id: a_unique_name

``jupyter-kernel`` can also take a directive option ``:id:`` that names the Jupyter session;
it is used in conjunction with the ``jupyter-download`` roles described in the next section.

Note that putting a ``jupyter-kernel`` directive starts a *new* kernel, so any variables and functions declared
in cells *before* a ``jupyter-kernel`` directive will not be available in future cells.

Note that we are also not limited to working with Python: Jupyter Sphinx supports kernels for
any programming language, and we even get proper syntax highlighting thanks to the power of
Pygments.

Downloading the code as a script
--------------------------------
Jupyter Sphinx includes 2 roles that can be used to download the code embedded in a document:
``:jupyter-download:script:`` (for a raw script file) and ``:jupyter-download:notebook:`` (for
a Jupyter notebook). For example, to download all the code from this document as a script we
would use::

    :jupyter-download:script:`index`

Which produces a link like this: :jupyter-download:script:`index`. The name that the role is
applied to (``index`` in this case) is the name of the document for which you wish to download
the code. If a document contains ``jupyter-kernel`` directives with ``:id:`` specified, then
the name provided to ``:id:`` can be used to get the code for the cells belonging to the
that Jupyter session.


Configuration options
---------------------

Typically you will be using Sphinx to build documentation for a software package.

If you are building documentation for a Python package you should add the following
lines to your sphinx ``conf.py``::

    import os

    package_path = os.path.abspath('../..')
    os.environ['PYTHONPATH'] = ':'.join((package_path, os.environ.get('PYTHONPATH', '')))

This will ensure that your package is importable by any IPython kernels, as they will
inherit the environment variables from the main Sphinx process.

Here is a list of all the configuration options available to the Jupyter Sphinx extension:

jupyter_execute_default_kernel

    The default kernel to launch when executing code in ``jupyter-execute`` directives.
    The default is ``python3``.


jupyter_execute_data_priority

    The display priority of different output mimetypes. Mimetypes earlier in the data priority
    list are preferred over later ones. This is relevant if a code cell produces an output
    that has several possible representations (e.g. description text or an image).
    The default is
    ``['application/vnd.jupyter.widget-view+json', 'text/html', 'image/svg+xml', 'image/png', 'image/jpeg', 'text/latex', 'text/plain']``.


jupyter_execute_kwargs

    Keyword arguments to pass to ``nbconvert.preprocessors.execute.executenb``, which controls how
    code cells are executed. The default is ``dict(timeout=-1, allow_errors=True)``.

jupyter_sphinx_linenos

    Boolean argument it use line numbering in code cell display by default. Equivalent
    to setting the `linenos` directive for all code cells.

jupyter_sphinx_continue_linenos

    Boolean argument to use line numbering in code cells and continue line numbering
    from the previous cell. When set, line number can be reset to start at one by using
    the directive `linenos`.
